In this concept, we will learn about the most commonly used global variables in Solidity.
We will learn about Block,
Message, and tx global variables.
We will also show you how to carry out
the Ether Unit conversions and Time Unit conversions using suffixes,
Ether, and time. Let's get started.
So, we will start with the very first global variable called block.
You can get information about a specific block using the block global variable.
This has a bunch of methods that you can call.
Like number, returns the current blocks number,
Coinbase to get the address of the current blocks minor, difficulty,
to get the current blocks difficulty, gas limit,
just as the name says the gas limit for the current block,
timestamp is the same as a block time,
Block Hash, the hash of the block number that you provide.
If you use it for the current block,
you will get all zeros,
because there is no hash for the current block because it is not mind yet.
Let's move on to the next global variable called Msg, a very important one.
In fact, you would end up using it many times in your contracts.
This gives information on the current transaction that is being executed.
Msg.data, gives us the call data in bytes.
Msg.sender is the external link on
account or another account that sends this transaction.
Msg.sig is used to get the signature which is the four bytes of the call data,
the first four bytes of the call data, the signature.
Msg.value is a very important one that is used to
check amount of wei sent along with this transaction.
Now, this is of course only going to be available in functions that are marked payable.
Let's talk about the next global variable called tx.
tx.gasprice is a price paid for gas for this transaction.
tx.origin is the address that originated this transaction.
tx.origin is different than msg.sender that we just learned in the last line.
In case you have two contracts,
A and B, for contract A,
the msg.sender is the external accounts address,
and so is the tx.origin.
But for contract B, the msg.sender is contract A's address,
but tx.origin is externally accounts address like you see in the diagram on your screen.
Let's now talk about the next global variable, Ether.
Ether, the main unit for Ethereum has multiple denominations like wei,
finney, and many more.
You can use suffixes in Solidity to convert from one denomination to another.
There are many online websites that you can
visit to convert from one denomination to another,
and you see a screenshot on the screen right now of one of the websites.
Now, let's look on the screen that you have.
In the very first line of code,
you are evaluating wei to a specific denomination of ether,
and then setting the flag accordingly.
Now, this is easily possible since you can convert from one denomination to another.
All you have to do is use the word wei or ether.
Finney is another denomination of ether,
and there are many other denominations too.
Also wanted to mention that wei is the smallest denomination of Ether.
Now, let's look at another global variable in Solidity called now.
Now returns block time in seconds since 1970.
Just like ether, you can convert time using suffixes.
Let us see all this now using an example code.
Let's look some sample contract for
this global variables so you have a better understanding and how all these work.
So, now we see a contract on your screen called contract GlobalsContract.
Again, I'm going to keep reminding every time,
start with pragma line,
Solidity, version of Solidity,
and contract word c. Normally, by convention,
the name of the contract starts with a capital,
and that's just a convention,
and then within this we have the whole contract.
Now, what I'm doing, I'm actually having
a variable or a storage variable if you see string type,
public visibility called lastCaller,
and I'm just storing a value saying,
not setting it yet.
So, that's the value originating it with.
Now, we have a couple of functions.
Let's walk through the first function here.
Now, the first function is going to show
you how ether sub-denominations work in Solidity.
So, the function is called etherUnitsTest() public pure.
We will talk about visibilities.
For now just go with the flow,
but we are going to talk about all these different things that you see on the screen,
public pure in our functions concept.
This is returning a bool value.
Now, what I am doing is that I'm actually comparing if one ether equal 2,000 finney.
If that is the case, I'm going to return value,
which is value is being set to true in this case.
So, we're returning a true,
if this is equal to this.
If you see, that's how we can work from one denomination do another denomination,
just write the word after the numeric number and it's going to convert it for you.
Now, let's look at another function that demonstrates the use of Time Units,
function called Time Unit.
Again, public view, we will talk about all these in our functions concept.
So, what I'm doing here in this function,
I'm actually setting a variable,
you would time, called time now to now.
Remember, this is storing the time that has passed,
the block time in seconds since 1970.
In fact, this is 1970. Let's change that.
Not 1960.
Now, time now,
so what it's doing it's comparing time now equal to 1,000 days.
So, again that is how you again convert it.
Remember this time is in seconds,
because it returns in seconds.
So, we can compare from seconds, convert this days,
so we can easily compare from one denomination to
another denomination using that suffix space and then it's returning.
So, what it's doing, it's comparing if time now equal to 1,000 days,
which not the case,
so I am going to show you so.
This function is going to return false for you.
Now, moving on, let's talk about the next global variable we talked about called block.
So, this function demonstrates the use of block object.
So, if you have a function called get
block information and now it's returning all these numbers.
It's returning the number of the block,
the hash of the block, the Coinbase, and the difficulty.
So, the way we access it, all we do is block.
Now, these are global variables, you don't have to import them.
They're just available in the contract for you to use.
So, we're storing this block net number in number,
we're storing into hash,
we're storing into coin, difficulty, and then returning them.
The last function over here shows how Msg works,
the fourth global variable that we just talked about in our slides.
So, this function is called getMsgInformation is returning data,
signature, and the sender.
So, it's returning msg.data.
Remember that it returns the data of the current block,
signature, and the sender.
So, now let's go and deploy.
I'm going to show you a couple of interesting things here,
just so that, I think the more you play with remix and all these contracts,
the better understanding you will get,
so let's go to Run tab,
Compile tab has already compiled.
So, let's go Run tab and I'm going to delete this instance and now let's deploy it.
So, once you deploy the contract, you can click on this.
Now again, I wanted to show, you can anytime you create instances of the contract,
you can always delete them,
so you can start with a brand new one.
I'm going to do that again just so that I can show you that.
So, let's deploy it again.
So again, if you see I'm using my JavaScript VM,
which is my in-browser Ethereum network running right now,
and the address is this,
which means what is my msg.sender going to be?
This address. So, we'll confirm that using the function calls that we have.
So, let's go deploy it.
Let's look at the functions so if you see we have all these functions described here.
So, let's look at the first function.
So, the first function is,
it's comparing if one ether is equal to this much finney,
and if that's true is going to return a true.
All right. So, let's run that function, see it returns true.
Good. So, that's working.
Now, let's move on to the next function.
It's going to compare that if it's time now equal to 1,000 days,
which I'm suspecting it should see false.
So, let's go look at the time now function, Time Units.
So, it's returning a zero,
because we never said the value of U,
and so that means of course it's going to be zero,
and return time now that's going to happen.
Then, getBlockInformation is, let's go and click getBlockInformation,
but if you see it's going to turn the number of
the block, hash of the block, coinbase, and difficulty.
So, let's get the block information,
see if you see all this information, block number.
This and this all this information is sending being sent out to you.
If you also see remember,
I showed if you look at the block hash of
the current block is going to be giving me a zero,
and that's the reason I'm using block hash of number minus one,
so I get my block number,
store it in the variable number, and the number of return I get from minus one,
so it didn't get a zero.
So, that's the hash of the previous block that was just minding.
The last function here at getMsgInformation.
That's the interesting one, I wanted to show you that.
Let's go and look at our getMsg function, let's called that.
So, that's the data, of course I didn't send any data along with you,
this function call right now.
So, it's going to pick up information from there,
and sender, that's the important one I definitely wanted to show you.
If you look at this address msg.sender 0147 on your screen,
and this is the address on my screen right now.
So, that means I'm the one that's originating
the contract or initiating the contract right now, so it matches.
So, a couple of things, interesting information again,
copy this code from our GitHub page, play around with it,
so you get really comfortable with the way global variables work in Solidity.